Single detached: A single detached house is a dwelling unitFootnote2 with walls and roofs independent of any other building. If two houses are connected only through a garage or an unheated space, both houses are considered to be detached.

Semi-detached: A semi-detached house is part of a set of two dwelling units separated from each other by one vertical division termed a “party wall.” Each dwelling unit is identified as “semi-detached” and evaluated separately.

Townhomes and row housing: Each townhome or row house shares one or more walls with adjacent properties but has its own entrance. A townhome or row house may be connected to adjacent properties on one side (end unit), both sides (middle unit), or back-to-back.

Mobile home: A mobile home is a movable dwelling unit designed and constructed to be transported by road on its own chassis to a site and placed on a permanent foundation such as blocks, posts or a pad.

Permanently moored floating home: A permanently moored floating home is a structure floating in water that incorporates a flotation system that maintains the building envelope above the waterline (typically greater than 400 mm [15.75 in.]) under normal load conditions. The floating home is not primarily intended for, or usable in, navigation and does not include a watercraft designed or intended for navigation.

Low-rise multi-unit residential building (MURB): A low-rise MURBFootnote3 is a building with three or fewer storeys above ground that has a footprint of 600 m2 or less and contains between 2 and 100 units. The units must be either fully or partially stacked (up/down) or joined by a common space if not stacked. Each unit must have a private entrance, either from the outside of the building or from a common space. A low-rise apartment building, triplex, duplex, or house with a secondary suiteFootnote4 is a MURB.

Mixed-use building: A mixed-use building is a building that has a mix of residential and non-residential occupancies (that is, a house or MURB that contains one or more dwelling units as well as commercial or retail space). At least 50% of the total floor area must be residential living space (that is, areas used for dwelling units and common spaces). The combined total floor area of the non-residential spaces must be less than that of the residential spaces and must not exceed 300 m2, excluding parking garages that serve residential occupancies.